[music]
>> Bloomberg Audio Studios. Podcasts,
radio, news.
Hello. Hello. Hello. Welcome to On Air
Fest 2026.
Thank you so much. I'm Kristen Meinzer.
I'm your MC for the day. And in case you
don't know who I am, I'm a podcaster,
I'm a royal watcher, I'm a culture
critic. I've been very busy over the
last week with some royal news you may
have heard of. So, um, you may know me
from those things. But today is not
about me. It is about the fantastic
talent that is going to be on the stage
and at this festival. Let's get to our
first live taping of the day,
Bloomberg's Odd Lots podcast. The host
of Odd Lots are Joe Weisenthal and Tracy
Alloway. Please welcome them to the
stage along with their very special
guest, Henry Blodget. Thank you so much.
Welcome to the stage.
>> [music]
>> Thank you so much and uh hello and
welcome to a live episode of the Odd
Lots podcast. I'm Joe Weisenthal. And
I'm Tracy Alloway. Tracy, we're
definitely not going to do this,
but it definitely feels like almost
every episode could be about AI these
days, right? Like it's just touching so
all the things we talk about are
suddenly getting subsumed into this
topic that we're not going to do it, but
we probably could. It's not just that
every episode could be on AI, it's that
every episode could probably be made by
AI at this point, right? And in fact,
we've had a few people last year, I
remember there were a few people who
made AI-generated episodes of the
podcast and they weren't that bad. And I
have to think if they did it today, they
would be even better. They would
definitely be better. Anyway, not better
than us, but they would be better than
they were a year ago. I'm not so sure.
They'd be better than they were a year
ago. Anyway, so we have to talk about AI
and what it's doing to the market,
finance, economics, etc. And of course,
we have to talk about what it means for
us in the media industry. And I'm really
excited to say we do have the perfect
guest. We're going to be speaking here
with Henry Blodget, the CEO of
Regenerator. He used to be my boss when
I was at a Business Insider. Someone who
has a background in both media and, of
course, Wall Street and finance. So, the
perfect person to talk about all the
different dimensions here. Truly the
perfect guest. All right, Henry. Thank
you so much for coming back on
Thank you for having me. So,
uh the last time we talked to you was in
May of last year. And the theme then was
everyone was talking about here these
huge valuations for AI companies. How
can they possibly be justified? And that
was an interesting conversation. And it
feels like the narrative has now flipped
180° where it's like these companies are
so powerful, they're going to destroy
every other company in their wake, and
every software company and payment
provider, etc., has been like plunging
really since the start of the year. How
have you like updated your views? Where
are you now versus where you were in,
say, May? We are early in the
development of the industry. This looks
a lot like the internet in the 1990s.
For those of you who remember, basically
when you have a huge opportunity like
this, early on, you can have a huge
range of reasonable predictions about
what is going to happen. And here we One
day, it's catastrophe. None of us are
ever going to have a job again.
Everything's going to crater. Other
days, hey, it's just a fancy word
processor. No worries. OpenAI's way
overvalued. I will say that since we
talked last, I believe that we were
aghast at the OpenAI $300 valuation. I
believe the latest one is $800 billion.
So, we are climbing, but there are other
companies out there that are worth many
times that. So, if one does think that
AI is going to take over the world and
OpenAI is the Google of the AI era,
which is the thesis, which I think is
very misguided, that we can get into,
then one can imagine that a company
might be worth many multiples of some of
the companies that are out there. So,
one of the crazy things that happened
this week, speaking of AI and media, is
there's a guy, we've had him on the
show, James Van Geelan, aka Citrini. He
runs a hedge fund, also publishes an
investment newsletter. He basically
wrote a doom case scenario of the year
2028 where everything had become AI, and
because everything was AI, no one had
any jobs, no one was actually buying
anything in the economy, and we
basically had an economic and financial
crisis. When I wrote that piece and then
saw the market reaction to it, so stocks
fell pretty dramatically and people were
attributing it to basically a newsletter
that was a thought piece,
I thought that was kind of insane. And
it speaks to what you just said, which
is when we're in this really uncertain
time, you can go from sort of euphoria
to doomerism very, very quickly.
>> Exactly, because it's all predictions.
We're all looking into the hazy future
saying, "How big is it going to be?"
These small changes in your assumptions
make a huge difference in the current
value. I will say, because that research
report was both heralded and pilloried,
this is exactly what you want analysts
to do. You want them to look out and
take a strong position and say, "Here's
what it can look like." And it I thought
it was a fascinating report. I will
point out that even though, as you just
characterized it, that this is economic
Armageddon, one of the first sentences
of the report says, "10% unemployment,"
which means 90% employment. Most of us
still have a job. And yes, there changes
in industries, but most of us are still
working. So, I was surprised after
hearing about, "It just predicts
catastrophe,"
that I picked it up. It's like, "Well,
no, it predicts a big technology change
that sometimes takes the economy a while
to digest, but not Armageddon."
What do you think though it says like
about the market right now? I mean, and
it's kind of an interaction of a market
story and a media story because here's a
Substack piece that really did seem to
move the market quite a bit on Monday,
right?
>> Yeah. What does it say about the market
environment that people cuz it's all
year, right? The software the software
stocks have been getting clobbered all
year and
our AI agents and maybe we'll get into
that going to somehow make it so we
don't need to buy regular business
software anymore. I don't totally
understand it, but this has been the
fear all year. What does it sort of say
about the market  media
environment that a Substack piece like
this could just go absolutely mega viral
like that and move the market? Everybody
is twitchy.
Valuations were high to begin with.
We're all reevaluating our views every
day saying, "Am I crazy thinking it
could be this? Maybe I'm crazy. I have
to panic a little bit." So,
we've seen stocks roll over, the
multiples are compressing a little bit.
Again, so far from Armageddon. It's
people saying, "Okay, there may be some
change here." And to your point, the big
bear case now is that, "Oh my goodness,
Claude Code is so good, no one will ever
buy software anymore. You'll just say,
'Hey, make me the software.'"
>> Yeah.
I've done that. Yeah. You have, you're a
big experimenter, but I would say you
were probably not spending billions of
dollars on enterprise software before
and
I don't have like thousands of people on
my payroll who are like they need to get
it in Friday, you know?
>> who depend on this and one of the nice
things about having a company standing
behind a product is you actually can
hold them accountable for it and maybe
Claude Code doesn't make your enterprise
software that you want you want.
Somebody doesn't get paid. So, as I hear
that, to me that is hysteria. I don't
understand it. Software companies are
not going away. Companies that are not
in the software business are not going
to suddenly say, "Oh, let's have a
junior person who understands AI build
all our software for us." It is not
going to happen. But, overall, big
change is coming, lots of disruption. Do
we know for sure what that's going to do
to profits of these companies and change
in the economy we we do not. And that is
called the discount rate getting higher,
it feels riskier. And on that day,
Monday, everybody was feeling suddenly
risk-averse. Today, I'll point out as we
tape, everyone's saying, "No problem.
Off to the races again."
You've obviously lived and been very
active and influential in a previous
technological, I guess, cycle of
disruption. What do you think people are
getting wrong here, especially on Wall
Street, when it comes to their approach
on this particular one? AI versus
dot-com. I I think this goes way beyond
Wall Street. I I think there really is a
big camp still, and the case gets made
and then it gets tamped down and then it
comes back even more strongly, that
there really will be no jobs for humans
anymore. And I what I would say to that
is, I think the bigger risk with AI is
actually that somebody invents an
agentic system that actually gets out in
the world and does a lot of damage. I
think that is a bigger risk. If you look
at technology job transitions over time,
like the big one, which is agriculture
to industrial, 200 years ago, 93% of us
worked on farms, now it's 2%. That's a
big transition and yet all through that
the number of jobs grow grew. And same
thing with things like telephone
operators, with steam engines, you look
at any piece of it, there is disruption
and pain and I'm not minimizing that for
the people whose jobs are changed or
disrupted by it. But the economy
overall, so far in history, has gone on
to create a lot more jobs. And so when
you when you see the lay waste to jobs
predictions, you don't also often get
the other side, which is how many new
jobs are going to be created. Well, this
is exactly what I want to ask you
because we hear that all the time during
technological advancement cycles, new
jobs are created. But I think the
difficulty with AI is that it's hard to
see what those new jobs
are going to be. Yeah, like what are we
better at than a supercomputer that can
code a program or write an article in
less than a minute?
>> a voice and do a podcast. Okay. So,
how how were we? 3 years in at this
point? These job doom predictions
started 20 minutes after ChatGPT came
out.
Where are we?
Maybe a little bit at the margin we're
seeing something maybe, but maybe it's
still that companies way over hired
after the COVID boom and are now sort of
right-sizing themselves. As you say, I
can go into LLM I can go to Google I
think it is, drop in a topic and say
make this into a great Odd Lots podcast.
Yeah.
But some people have said that Google
multiple people think that Google's
notebook LM which does that, creates a
podcast out of a document. Multiple
people have said they trained this on
Joe and Tracy. Like this sounds this
sounds like an Odd Lots podcast. Other
people are claiming that too. Yeah. Yes,
they could have. I'm just saying you
guys continue to grow. All I hear more
and more about is oh you got to listen
to Odd Lots. Growing growing growing
growing growing. And I don't think we
were talking earlier that you've
radically changed you made the way you
make the show. We're still recording it
here. You didn't just queue up LLMs.
Who is going to rush
to do the big interview with Google?
They're not. They're going to come do it
with you guys cuz they love you and your
audience loves you. So, I'm just saying
even in something that seemingly looks
so ripe to be destroyed, you guys cost
money. Why is Bloomberg spending it? Why
is he throwing it away, right?
>> going to have to defend our salaries on
stage? You're I'm just saying be a
little bit more optimistic. So, I mean I
hear both ways and thank you for saying
that. On the other hand, you know,
people might not have the same affinity
for someone who does claims adjusting in
an insurance. They don't really care if
they have the human touch for that or
tech support. I want to ask a related
question. It also relates to the piece
that came out on Monday and it relates
to this question of whether Open AI is
could be the Google of the next
generation. One of the arguments that
the piece stipulates, and I think it
sort of fits with what I have observed,
is that AI doesn't seem to have network
effects in the same way. So, it's like
you could switch from Open ChatGPT to
Claude with almost no issues and it's
just not an issue. Whereas, after the
first time I used Google in 2000, I
never used Yahoo again. That was the
That was the last time I had ever used
another search engine.
This seems This is one of the arguments
in the piece, that there isn't going to
be the same stickiness and network
effects in the AI era in the way that
defined the last 25 years of the
internet. And so, when you think about
like
Open AI versus Google this year versus
the dot-com era, does that resonate to
you?
I think that what folks who would say
that Open AI is the Google of the era
would say that more and more you're
going to put more of your life into it.
It's going to know everything about you.
It's going to customize. So, it's going
to be the switching costs are going to
grow, but to this point they have not.
And I'll tell you the thing that really
made me think they were in trouble, and
I still think that given the valuation
and given the general consensus that
they've already won, was when Google
Gemini came out and people said, "Oh,
it's better. Yeah, they passed them."
And everyone All the bulls said, "Oh,
ho, ho, just wait till the next version
of Open AI comes out." I will say if you
go back into the 1990s,
Amazon was very controversial. A lot of
people thought it would go bankrupt.
It's just a bookstore. Barnes & Noble's
going to put them out of business as
soon as they have a website or Walmart
or whatever. Walmart and Barnes & Noble
never got anywhere near Amazon. Amazon
was so far out ahead always and still
almost went bankrupt, by the way. But,
nobody was ever close. And in this case,
less than 2 years after the product
comes out, the incumbent has caught up.
To me, that's when I said like, "Whoa,
okay. Maybe this actually is going to be
like the internet, which is the first 5
years, all of us, including me, were
saying like, "Oh, just buy the leaders.
No problem. Like, they're the ones that
are going to survive." You know how many
survived of that first 500 companies
that went public in the 1990s?
One went on to actually make investors a
lot of money after the crash. That was
Amazon. Two others that I know of,
Cisco, after 25 years, finally got back
to its stock price. eBay did okay for a
while, and then kind of sputtered out a
little bit. That's out of hundreds and
hundreds of companies. So, I think it's
very possible that yes, AI is huge, it's
a great idea, we all want it, and
somebody is going to come along soon and
do to Open AI what Google did to Yahoo,
which, by the way, Yahoo was the big
search engine winner, and then Google
destroyed it. So, I just think it's way
too early to say that we Open AI is the
Google.
>> [music]
[music]
>> We started by mentioning the Open AI
valuation, which everyone was aghast at
last year. Now, maybe not so much. But,
even if you assume a future where Open
AI, or whoever, comes in and disrupts
every single industry, and there are
thousands of employees and companies
that are paying $200 a month, or
whatever, to access the new LLM,
whatever the new model is,
Open AI, at least for right now, is
still losing money on every customer.
That's like a power user. So, how does
that actually translate into a working
business model? I It's good question. I
think what the bulls would say is
the cost of what they do is going to
plummet. And so, the lines are going to
cross here pretty soon. If they own the
whole market, suddenly they start to
become incredibly profitable. We are not
there yet. And I think when we talked
last time at a $300 billion valuation,
which everybody was horrified by at that
point, but if you looked at the
projections, the projections were 3
years from now, they'll do a hundred
billion of revenue. And if you at that
point were looking at it saying, "Okay,
if I believe that, then it's three times
revenue. The economics will probably
change. It starts to look a little more
reasonable." Now we're at 800 billion.
So, it's a much bigger multiple, and
you've got to actually have a much
bigger revenue stream and profits. But
that's the argument. I don't see it yet.
I got to say, the economics are
incredibly difficult for them right now.
>> brutal. And there's another element,
too. So, obviously, unlike during the
the web 2.0 era, where there was like
cheap, plentiful compute, obviously, the
capital expenditure budgets of these
companies are just eye-watering. They're
spending like crazy. There's also this
other element that I think is
interesting, which is
at least at a few of these labs, like
the people who founded them are true
believers. Like they think they're like
they think they're on a mission to build
AGI is going to change everything. Build
God, basically.
>> Build God, right? Build the digital God.
And it's like they're not going to stop
at anything. They're not going to be
like, "You know what? It's pretty good.
Let's tap the brakes. We're pretty happy
with how this model works." You know, it
I don't Or at least I don't get that
impression. Also, they've couched it as
this like existential race. Like there's
only going to be one company that
dominates in the end. So, the upper
limit on spending to become that company
is
infinity. Yes. However, there is a limit
to money.
And when you look at when people are
raising money, you watch where they're
going for it. Sure, the the VCs, that's
one pool of money. And then the big
strategics. And then the VCs who missed
the first time and are feeling so
embarrassed about it, they'll pay up to
get in. Then it is the international
funds that are watching all this stuff.
Yeah, exactly. So, at some point you run
out of money. And we are talking about a
company that is raising hundreds of
billions of dollars just to keep the
engine running. And just to keep pace.
This is the other problem. Google,
Facebook, Microsoft are generating tens
of billions of dollars of free cash flow
every year that they can use to buy
chips. OpenAI has to raise it in the
open market. So, if those economics
don't start to change soon,
they're going to they're going to run
out of money. Joe and I were talking
about this before we came on stage, but
another thing that happened recently was
there was a karaoke machine making
company [laughter]
that announced it was now an AI company.
Which, when I see headlines like that,
remind me a lot of the crypto boom, but
also remind me a lot of the dot-com
boom. And we are starting to see more
and more of those. Wasn't there a toilet
company recently?
>> toilet one is legit. So, like apparently
No, no, [laughter] for real. So, you
the it was not like, "Oh, we're an AI
company." Apparently, it's the Japanese
toilet company and they have some like
porcelain or something like that is very
important for like semiconductors or
something. So, everyone's like, "Oh, get
out of the toilet business. You have
this access to this material." But the
So, that one was kind of legit. The
karaoke one Okay. Okay, so the toilet
one, maybe. The karaoke one, when you
see headlines like that, what do you
think? Do you think like this is a
rational pivot into a booming market and
everyone should be experimenting with AI
at the moment, or do you think like,
"No, this is getting crazy." I think we
are in a euphoric
bubble period where we've just
discovered this amazing new thing.
Nobody knows what the future is. Nobody
knows what's going to work. And we are
effectively creating this enormous R&D
lab, which is, "Hey, what? You can do
something? Here's some money. Go out and
experiment. I hope you'll be one of the
winners. 50 to 100 years ago, all of
that stuff happened in labs like
Edison's lab or Bell Labs inside these
big corporations. You never saw it. Now,
everything is a startup. You see it.
It's happening in front of you, but
there's no question that most of the
companies are going to fail. Happens
again and again and again. And I think
what investors are saying when they see
that is, okay, you know, that is a quick
flip. It's, hey, I'll get it Other
people A lot of other people love AI.
They'll buy it after I do and it'll go
up. And then I'll sell it. I want to ask
you a question about capital markets and
how they're different to the late 90s of
the dot-com bubble because one really
big thing that's happening these days is
Yes, these companies are private, but
there is a lot of stock floating around
and there are these SPVs that will buy,
acquire a chunk of say Anthropic and
sell them on a secondary market and
people are trying to get They're much
more liquid than a private company would
have been in the late 90s. I get someone
Someone messaged me. They're like, "Do
you want to buy a little I don't like,
"No, I don't do that." But they're like,
"Would you like to buy a little bit of
Anthropic at a $350 billion valuation?"
But you must get a bunch of those sort
of messages from people and I'm curious
about your perspective on this world cuz
the other thing is like there's no
financials. You have no idea like what
their P&L is for these private comp
What's your take on some of this quasi
liquid private market stock?
>> Yeah. And let us just say that when our
phones are ringing
>> Yeah, I know. This is the thing.
>> right at the [laughter] end.
IT'S THE LAST MONEY OUT THERE. IT'S LIKE
NO, IF SOMEONE is reaching out to me
It can't be that much money to make. Big
big warning signs going on over there.
So, I think one of the things that's
changed versus the dot-com boom in the
1990s and before that is companies used
to go public very early before. And you
could invest in Amazon, for example, at
a $400 million valuation. Sounds like a
lot. It's worth trillions of dollars
now. There's been incredible
appreciation.
Individuals can't do that anymore. And
there's good reason for it. People lost
a lot of money after the dot-com crash.
We didn't like that. We want to protect
everybody. So, now companies go public a
lot later. The threat of lawsuits and
all of the different regulatory
regulation that you've got to do, so
it's later. But, the bummer about it is
a lot of investors who actually do have
the risk tolerance can't access them.
And so, yes, you've had a new business
that has been built around, okay, let's
get that private stock somehow get it in
there. And And the problem is
again, if you choose right,
great company, it works. But, it's more
fees packed around it. It's much more,
you know, that that intermediary that
called you has to get paid. So, that's
somebody else. It's more difficult to
trade. So, I think it is the market
trying to solve the problem that it's
much harder to make money in OpenAI at
800 billion or Anthropic at 350 billion
than it is in the seed round when it was
a few hundred million. And so, you've
got a lot of people clamoring to get in,
but it's the same problem. You don't
even in fact less. When companies go
public, they do or they are releasing a
lot of information, whereas these guys
are not.
>> [music]
[music]
>> Should we do some media stuff?
>> Yeah, let's do media. All right, let the
media navel-gazing begin. Okay, so we
started out by saying that, you know, we
were talking about the Citrini piece
that got It went viral, but it also got
a backlash. You did your own AI newsroom
experiment newsletter on Substack
that also got a bit of a backlash. Were
you surprised at that one? I Yes, I was
surprised. Basically, what I did, I I
left Business Insider, I started this
new thing, Regenerator, and a podcast,
too. Trying your business. It's very
difficult, but fun. It's good. This is
the most important aspect of podcasting.
Yes, podcast called Solutions with Harry
Check it out, check. Yes, please. So, I
left and it was just me. So, I said,
"Okay, great. Let's see what it can do."
Cuz if you try that as a CEO of a
company, people freak out justifiably.
Oh my goodness, they're going to
discover something, my job's threatened.
We are all worried about our jobs being
threatened. Including, by the way,
do we need
articles? Anymore articles? I mean, boy,
there are a lot of great articles
written every day. In fact, this is the
problem in media. There's way too much
of it. Let's just get that out there.
Anyway, so yes, I experimented with
everything. And the first thing that I
did was, "Oh, if I were actually
starting a publication and hiring a
team, who would I hire?" Well, I'd hire
five people. I'd have a managing editor
and I'd have a few reporters and so
forth. So, I asked ChatGPT, "Can you
help me?" ChatGPT said, "Sure, let's
make them." So, in 2 hours, we made
them. They all had different
personalities, they had headshots, etc.
I wrote this up. We had like Slack going
where we're all talking about stories
and it was pretty good. Not spectacular,
but pretty good. And so, that was cool.
So, I wrote about it. Yes, I also
made the mistake of complimenting one of
the headshots and was immediately
lambasted for that, which actually
helped me hone my own AI morality.
>> Wait, I have a question on this.
[laughter] If you had had a human editor
for that piece, do you think you would
have complimented your AI-generated
managing editor on her appearance? The
piece needed to be editing edited. This
is the problem. You're out on your own,
you don't have great editors protecting
you anymore, you let your enthusiasm
bubble over a little bit too much. You
know who I have edit my stuff now?
Sometimes, if I feel like I'm maybe a
little bit too enthusiastic
enthusiastic, ChatGPT or Claude. And
very good, spots it. Anyway, yes.
>> Talk to us about that newsroom dynamic.
Particularly, you know, every editor at
a news every every newsroom right now is
like trying to figure out something,
right? And you can't like alienate the
entire newsroom and say like, "Oh, you
all have to be doing what You all have
to be vibe coders.
>> Yeah, like
that doesn't work. The newsroom
obviously hates it and I would say
probably for good reason. But on the
other hand, everyone has to be like
figuring stuff out. What should newsroom
executives, whether it's editors in
chief or whatever, how should they be
thinking about solving this problem?
So, I mean, so going back the other
thing. The other thing that I learned
from publishing that was just how much
anxiety there is, especially in the
younger generation, about jobs that have
been there for a long time that are just
disappearing. And that was
extremely clear to me and I would have
been even more Yeah, I understand it. I
mean, it is scary. And so, what does a
newsroom do? I think let's look at
what's going on media. The problem again
is there's way too much media.
There are so many amazing articles, for
example, produced every day. When I open
The New York Times or The Wall Street
Journal or Bloomberg, I want to read
dozens of articles. I might get to one
or two. Yeah.
>> And distribution has changed radically.
Five years ago, Facebook, Google were
driving enormous distribution to lots of
different publishers. That is all now
changing. We are going back to something
that looks like the 1990s where actually
you have to have a direct relationship
with your subscriber.
The industry is under a ton of pressure
both from advertising, but also we have
maximized the amount of time as humans
that we can spend consuming media. This
is very different from 20 years ago when
we started Business Insider. You
remember this? Like in the 1990s, media
was very mature. It was really
>> Don't say it's 20 years ago, by the way.
That's like 30 years I [laughter] don't
like to think about that fact.
Okay, but let's go back to the 9090s,
even further. Media was very mature.
Magazines, totally mature, very hard to
start one. You needed $50 million and
you need to hire all these great people,
and then maybe 5 years down the road you
might, if you're lucky, become
profitable. Very hard. Very hard to get
into newspapers. Television even worse.
You're a slave for a long, long time
getting coffee. So forth. Very, very
tough. Then desktops came along and got
connected. So that was suddenly 12 hours
a day that people are sitting in the
office. They need to know what's going
on. It's a new opportunity. Then phones
came, and that's the thing that really
drove Business Insider in the early
years. We're standing around. We want to
know what's happening. Nobody else is
serving that. So big, big opportunity.
But over time all the folks in the
industry caught up. New York Times is
terrific. So is Wall Street Journal. So
is Business Insider. So is Bloomberg.
These companies are really, really good
at this now. And if you just look at,
for example, political coverage, we
don't need a hundred White House
reporters. We just don't. And yet that's
the thing that everybody's interested
in. So of course you're going to have a
reporter focus on that. And yet there's
just too much capacity. And then the
other thing that happened, and I'll
finish up very quickly, is the internet
blew up the protective moat around all
of the 1990s era media.
Print and TV used to be completely
separate. Now they're the same. You used
to not have a television company be able
to own a newspaper. Now we've done away
with that. Everybody can own everything.
Everybody can do everything, and it's
all a click away. So it has become even
more intensely competitive. And so never
been an easy industry, but we are back
to it being an incredibly intensely
competitive industry, and I do think
there's just in general too much of it.
So when we think about the impact of AI
on media,
it feels to me like people are talking
about two paths here. And one is where,
you know, the big chat platforms are
basically they they the front page of
the internet, right? And you type in
whatever query you have today, how did
the State of the Union address go last
night or something like that, and it
spits out a bunch of information that's
based on a bunch of articles that
you yourself are not paying for. And
then the other thing that I hear is,
well, actually in the age of internet
slop, AI slop, that distribution and
quality is going to become even more
important. So, people are going to want
to go to The New York Times or hopefully
to Bloomberg or wherever and get that
take on last night's events. Where do
you stand on that sort of you know, it's
a very binary outcome to me. Which way
do you think we're going? I I think this
is great for the brands that make it.
And again, nobody has a right to exist.
It's going to be a fight, but for the
brands that make it, it is terrific. I
trust Bloomberg. I read a Bloomberg
article, I know the reporter knows what
they're doing, and they know the
subject. I know there is editing there.
Occasionally, there's a mistake, but it
is an honest mistake that will be fixed
quickly.
Compare that to what I see on social
media, especially now where AI can
create photos and videos and everything
else. I don't know. I know The New York
Times will immediately dive in if
something is bubbling up, some video
that's apparently scandalous that we've
all got to look at. I know they'll do
work on it. Maybe we'll sometime get to
the point where they can be fooled. Not
yet. And so, I trust them. And you
actually need a brand and an great
organization to do that.
And people SAY, "OH, YES, BUT EVERYBODY
OUT THERE, you know, who knows what's
true?" And it's over That has always
been the case. At its peak in the inner
in the print era,
a million people read The New York
Times.
That's it. Everybody else heard what was
said from their friends, or they heard
something else, they never thought about
it. And so, the idea that yeah, there's
stuff out there that some people
believe. There's always been stuff out
there that some people believe. So, I
think it's great for brands, but I do
think it's going to be a fight. It's
never going to be an easy industry. Talk
to us more about this question though of
like
Okay, everyone, you know, New York Times
like anyone else, they have to figure
this out, right? They have to figure out
like what can they leverage it? I'm
doing scare quotes cuz I hate that word,
you know, but that's like the word that
everyone use. Can they be leveraged in
some way in the context of the
traditional newsroom? AI. Yeah.
And so, going back to your question,
which I realized I didn't even get to
>> [laughter]
>> before. So, what what should newsrooms
do?
>> that? Like cuz everyone hear that oh,
you have to like run your run your text
through this chatbot or train your train
the AI that's going to replace whatever
or they fear, you know, very reasonable
fear. How do you How can anyone overcome
that? So, I think there there is the
opportunity for there to be a lot of
productivity enhancements in what we
have today. We were talking earlier, you
both use research ChatGPT for research.
Me, too. It's great.
That is a very different. That is one
use of media is me looking for
information, going out It used to be
that I would search for articles. Now, I
do it with Claude or ChatGPT. That is a
smaller piece
than what most media has lived on
forever, which is
I don't know what I'm interested in.
Whoa, that's an interesting story.
>> Yeah. And that's the serendipitous
consumption of media. That's why
newspaper headlines have been like this
forever. It's why magazine covers
matter. We don't know what we want until
we see it, and then we get it. And it's
why in in our business
there are many different talents you
need to be extraordinarily talented in
the business. One is sure, reporting,
accuracy, expertise, so forth. You also
have to know what people care about and
what a good story is and why it matters.
And I don't think that changes. And so,
where do we look around the industry?
Yeah, research, drafting stories, why
not? And it when people are aghast at
that, let me just say, back in the print
era
for newspapers, especially a daily
newspaper, what would happen is the
reporters would be out in the field,
they would get information, they would
call it in to the rewrite desk verbally.
They didn't have anything to write it
with, they'd just say, "Here are the
facts." The rewriters would write it.
And in the last 20 years or 30 years, we
who have been trained in writing and we
value it and we go to Columbia
Journalism School, we have complete
conflated
reporting and writing as journalism. And
I do think there are opportunities now
where, okay, the writing lift may may be
lightened by this. And I'm not saying,
say, "Here's the article and just
publish it." I'm just saying,
you know what? Perplexity's pretty good
at writing a well-informed, well-sourced
story in 6 seconds. And maybe that
actually accelerates what you're doing.
And then maybe you can add your piece to
the top or or what have you. So, I do
think there are uses for it, too. So, I
actually I agree with that argument. I
think like social skills and
investigative skills are going to become
more important in the age of AI.
However, what you always hear is, well,
you're going to need you're going to
need to produce scoops, right? You're
going to have to find the stuff that the
models don't already know about and
that's going to be the valuable aspect
of journalism. But the problem seems to
be that those scoops get commodified so
freaking quickly that I'm not sure that
actually generates much value for the
news organization. It is very hard to
protect news. You can't. But
the organizations that produce it all
the time are going to have a huge
advantage because it is going to be
worth subscribing to them. And that's
where the that's where the New York
Times, The Wall Street Journal, and
Bloomberg, that's where it's coming
from. And Bloomberg's an interesting one
because you really serve a
a somewhat small but highly committed
base where, you know, Bloomberg
reporters are breaking stuff all the
time that allow people to make or lose
money. They're going to care and they're
going to have that terminal. And ChatGPT
is not doing that. So, part of what I
hear you say is, "Wait a minute. It has
to be differentiated."
Yeah, it does.
Actually, there's a lot less value than
there used to be in somebody said
something interesting, let's write it in
an intelligent way, do a little more
work and get it to somebody else.
That is not as useful anymore for the
reason that you described, but those
companies, if they want to compete with
each other and they do, ChatGPT and
Claude right now, they are going to have
to pay for that information. And that's
where a Bloomberg is in great position
and say another thing, it's not just the
big generalists, it is the niche
providers who are experts like you guys
and do an amazing job in a particular
area that people really care about.
Those are going to Those are going to
survive. And I'll say one more thing,
which is Jeff Bezos was an investor
in Business Insider. It's incredibly
helpful to talk to him, very smart. I
realize now he's become
kind of not applauded in the journalism
industry, but one of the things that he
liked to say is everybody wants to know
what's changing and what it means. It's
actually more useful to step back and
say, "What is going to stay the same?"
What is going to stay the same in media
is that we are always want to We're
always going to want to know what's
happening and what it means and we're
always going to want to be entertained.
And that's what media does. It's tough,
but until actually there are no more
humans, we are going to want media to
deliver that. I agree with that. You
know, there's some really good stories
by the way about the like the New York
Post and Daily News like report like the
crime reporters out in the field and
then they would call the rewrite desk
and then they would like translate it
into like tabloid speak. It's a That's a
cool That'd be a cool cool thing.
>> Remember notes on a Blackberry in like
the early 2000s and then someone in the
newsroom would translate it into
readable words. With our few minutes
left, I want to talk about you mentioned
Jeff Bezos. I want to talk about the
business environment right now. When
President Trump won, there was a lot of
headlines about you know, these CEOs
that be like, "Well, now we free speech
and now we can speak our minds and you
know, none of this woke stuff where we
have to like be careful about what we
speak." And like I get the impression
that is literally the exact opposite and
that CEOs have never been more scared
and they're never been more timid and
they like are sycophants to him and they
like do these big pilgrimages and stuff.
And meanwhile, we know they hate the
tariffs. We know they hate all the stuff
going on. What do you like make of that
because
he's not even that popular anymore. He's
actually like arguably like one of the
least popular presidents ever and yet I
don't get the impression that there's
been much of a change in the sort of
like world of CEOs and rich guys and
billionaires about speaking their mind.
Yes, the whole free speech thing was
always, "I want MORE SPEECH THAT I
believe in. So, I can say whatever I
want. You can't say what you want." So,
it was kind of ludicrous. I think that
in general,
the big companies and CEOs, especially
because President Trump won the last
election clearly,
they said, "Okay.
I believe in democracy. I'm going to be
pragmatic and take care of my team and
my company." And also for most public
company CEOs,
they are easily removed and they know
that. And your job is to actually take
care of your company and shareholders.
It is not to be a free speech crusader
and stand up for your personal thing
that you believe in. And so, I think
there was a lot of pragmatism. I think
that may start to change here.
I feel like things have happened in the
last few months. We may be starting to
see a change, but I think it was is
mainly pragmatism and you can look at
that from the outside and say that's
outrageous. But I think they were
looking out for their companies and
their teams and their shareholders.
I want to go back to media and naval
gazing because I've got more questions.
And I actually hesitate to ask this one
because I fear that your response is
going to get back to asking Joe and I to
justify our own salaries. But I know,
I'm telling you why you're not going to
be replaced by notebook LM.
>> Okay, I'm going to ask you to justify a
particular paycheck kind of. Okay, when
you sold Business Insider to Axel
Springer, what year was that?
2015.
>> 2015. Okay, if you were selling Business
Insider to Axel Springer now,
how different would your pitch to them
be in 2026 versus 2015?
I would say that I think
one of Business Insider's advantages,
and Joe was a big part of this, was we
were
not trying to defend the old way that
journalism was done in print and
television. We were trying to bring
rigorous journalism to a new medium
where people wanted different things,
where distribution was very different.
So, we were experimenters and
innovators. And for every idea that
worked, we had 25 ideas that were dumb
and didn't work. I take responsibility
for all of them.
That was the only way to figure out what
worked. And one of the things we noticed
relatively early is, "Hey, we can figure
out what people like. And we want to
serve them." And we did a good job at
that. And I think that was the That was
the thing that made Business Insider
successful. I think now, for all
companies,
stuffing [snorts] your head in the sand
and wishing AI would go away is not a
great strategy. So, what would be? What
can we do? And again, one of the things
that's changed as Google and Facebook
and social have
totally dried up as sources of
distribution is we are back in this
direct subscriber world, just like
magazines and newspapers way back in the
world. So that is serving your
subscribers. This is what you guys do.
You have this incredibly passionate
audience. They know you. They want to
hear from you every week. And so that's
what media companies need to do. So
that's what I would say is we are as
focused as we have ever been on serving
our readers, viewers, people who love
us.
So you're now in subscri- very sub-
subscriber oriented media. You have a
newsletter, you have a podcast, etc.
Other than realizing like actually, you
know, editors are good and so forth,
what else have you learned? Or what's
been notable about your own personal
journey into subscriber based media?
What has surprised you? Well, so I give
you a Well, I think so.
A lot of what I've been doing the last
year or two is writing novels. This is
something I wanted to do forever. It's
like, okay, now's the time. And I talked
to another friend of mine who used to be
a screenwriter and I confessed that to
him. He's like,
Dude, that is crazy.
Just go to Claude.
Tell Claude what you want. And Claude
will spit out 325 pages and it'll be
pretty good.
And I don't I believe it. And it'll take
20 minutes. And so I feel like the
world's biggest idiot from a business
perspective. On the other hand,
I did want to do it. I'm glad I did it.
It's been really fun.
>> What's the What's the story What's the
Tell us about it.
>> out next month? It's called The Upgrade.
It's about a tech billionaire who wants
to use AI to take over the world.
>> That doesn't sound like fiction. It's
non-fiction. But it'll be out. I It's
going to be out in beta. It's a new form
of books. Like a screen test. Yes. It's
been in alpha for a while. A lot of
people have read it. It's a different
kind of book. No, it's a book book. But
there's going to be a period where I
invite you to read it. Thank you. If you
would, send me what you think. And then
when I publish it for real in May, we'll
have benefited from your reading.
Anyway, so I feel like a complete idiot
for doing it. But what I will say is for
me as an analyst and writer and speaker
part of the joy is the process. And I
learn so much and this is what I don't
understand about how research is going
to be conducted. One of the things I
remember they got I was hey write me a
research report about X. Six months
later it comes back. It's better than a
research report that I would have
written as an as a young analyst when I
didn't know anything and it took six
minutes. So I said okay.
I'm not going to write any research
reports anymore but
it took me a month to do that as a
25-year-old. I learned a lot through
that process and so now I don't know how
you learn. I think you're reading the
report I like I don't that's the thing
I'm really struggling with. But I will
say so for me the process has been
interesting. I hope you like the book.
If you like it maybe I'll do another one
that would be great. But what I would
say is
on this whole thing for what are humans
going to do
you're a chess player
it has been 40 years since our phones
could clobber us in chess.
Chess is bigger than it has ever been in
person. So my hope is
we have AI research and write stuff that
we don't really want to do and we save
our writing and orating and everything
else for the stuff that we are really
passionate about.
Henry Blodget thank you so much and
thanks for joining us here at
on air fest. It was a lot of fun. Thank
you so much Henry.
>> [music]
>> This has been another episode of the Odd
Lots podcast. I'm Tracy Alloway. You can
follow me at Tracy Alloway. And I'm Joe
Weisenthal. You can follow me at the
Stalwart. Follow our producers Carmen
Rodriguez at Carmen Arman, Dash
O'Connell at Dashbot and Caleb Brooks at
Caleb Brooks. And for more Odd Lots
content go to bloomberg.com/oddlots
for the daily newsletter and all of our
episodes and you can chat about all of
these things 24/7 in our discord
discord.gg/oddlots.
And if you enjoy Odd Lots, then please
leave us a positive review on your
favorite podcast platform. And remember,
if you are a Bloomberg subscriber, you
can listen to all of our episodes
absolutely ad [music] free. All you need
to do is find the Bloomberg channel on
Apple podcast and follow the
instructions there. [music]
Thanks for listening.
>> [music]
[music]